Release notes `v0.25.0` (#2902)
PennyLaneAI/pennylane: doc/releases/changelog-0.25.0.md

  [(#2874)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/2874)
  [(#2644)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/2644)

  The new [resource](https://pennylane.readthedocs.io/en/stable/code/qml_resource.html) module allows you to estimate the number of 
  non-[Clifford gates](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Clifford_gates) and logical 
  qubits needed to implement [quantum phase estimation](https://codebook.xanadu.ai/P.1) 
  algorithms for simulating materials and molecules. This includes support for quantum 
  algorithms using [first](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/First_quantization) and [second](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Second_quantization) quantization with specific bases:

  - [First quantization](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/First_quantization) using a plane-wave basis via the `FirstQuantization` class:

    ```python
    import pennylane as qml
    from pennylane import numpy as np
    
    n = 100000        # number of plane waves
    eta = 156         # number of electrons
    omega = 1145.166  # unit cell volume in atomic units
    
    algo = FirstQuantization(n, eta, omega)
    ```
    
    ```pycon
    >>> print(algo.gates, algo.qubits)
    1.10e+13, 4416

>     ```

Reviewer: I'm fine with the simplified example that you provided!

  [(#2944)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/2944)
  [(#2644)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/2644)

  The new [resource](https://pennylane.readthedocs.io/en/stable/code/qml_resource.html) module allows you to estimate the number of 
  non-[Clifford gates](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Clifford_gates) and logical 
  qubits needed to implement [quantum phase estimation](https://codebook.xanadu.ai/P.1) 
  algorithms for simulating materials and molecules. This includes support for quantum 
  algorithms using [first](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/First_quantization) and [second](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Second_quantization) quantization with specific bases:

  - [First quantization](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/First_quantization) using a plane-wave basis via the `FirstQuantization` class:

    ```pycon
    >>> n = 100000        # number of plane waves
    >>> eta = 156         # number of electrons
    >>> omega = 1145.166  # unit cell volume in atomic units
    >>> algo = FirstQuantization(n, eta, omega)
    >>> algo.gates
    1.10e+13
    >>> algo.qubits
    4416

>     ```

Author: The formatting here lacks coherence with the `DoubleFactorization` example, that's why I changed it.

Reviewer: See new update. Is that better?

Author: I think the pycon should be separated in python and pycon like the second example, but it is really minor.

    >>> n = 100000        # number of plane waves
    >>> eta = 156         # number of electrons
    >>> omega = 1145.166  # unit cell volume in atomic units
    >>> algo = FirstQuantization(n, eta, omega)
    >>> print(algo.gates, algo.qubits)
    1.10e+13, 4416
    ```

  - [Second quantization](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Second_quantization) with a double-factorized Hamiltonian via the 
    `DoubleFactorization` class: 
 
    ```python
    symbols = ["O", "H", "H"]
    geometry = np.array(
        [
            [0.00000000, 0.00000000, 0.28377432],
            [0.00000000, 1.45278171, -1.00662237],
            [0.00000000, -1.45278171, -1.00662237],
        ],
        requires_grad=False,
    )

    mol = qml.qchem.Molecule(symbols, geometry, basis_name="sto-3g")
    core, one, two = qml.qchem.electron_integrals(mol)()

    algo = DoubleFactorization(one, two)
    ```

    ```pycon
    >>> print(algo.gates, algo.qubits)
    103969925, 290
    ```
    
  The methods of the `FirstQuantization` and the `DoubleFactorization` classes 
  can be also accessed individually without instantiating an instance of the class:

  + The number of logical qubits with `qubit_cost`

>   + The number of non-Clifford gates with `gate_cost`

Reviewer 2: This is very minor, but since there is only a single codeblock, you could unindent the codeblock and remove the bullet points. E.g.,

````markdown
The methods of the `FirstQuantization` and the `DoubleFactorization` classes,
such as `qubit_cost` (number of logical qubits) and `gate_cost` (number
of non-Clifford gates), can be also accessed as static methods:

```pycon
>>> qml.resource.FirstQuantization.qubit_cost(100000, 156, 169.69608, 0.01)
4377
>>> qml.resource.FirstQuantization.gate_cost(100000, 156, 169.69608, 0.01)
3676557345574
```
````

* `DefaultQubit` devices now natively support parameter broadcasting, providing 
  a faster way of executing the same circuit at various parameter positions
  compared to using the `qml.transforms.broadcast_expand` transform.
  [(#2627)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/2627)
  
* Parameter-shift gradients now allow for parameter broadcasting. 
  [(#2749)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/2749)

  The gradient transform `qml.gradients.param_shift` now accepts the keyword argument 

>   `broadcast`. If set to `True`, broadcasting is used to compute the derivative:

Reviewer: I've updated the body of this item with that code example. Does it make sense? Also, I wanted to include a picture of the speedup that David made for me. Where do I stick that image that's called upon a few lines below?

>   `broadcast`. If set to `True`, broadcasting is used to compute the derivative:

Reviewer 2: @isaacdevlugt you can put it in the `_static` folder, that's where we tend to put images :)

  >>> y = np.array([np.pi/6, np.pi/5], requires_grad=True)
  >>> qml.gradients.param_shift(circuit, broadcast=True)(x, y)
  (tensor([[-0.7795085,  0.       ],
           [ 0.       , -0.7795085]], requires_grad=True),
  tensor([[-0.125, 0.  ],
          [0.  , -0.125]], requires_grad=True))
  ```

  The following simpler example also makes use of broadcasting:

  ```python
  @qml.qnode(dev, diff_method="parameter-shift", broadcast=True)
  def circuit(x, y):
      qml.RX(x, wires=0)
      qml.RY(y, wires=1)
      return qml.expval(qml.PauliZ(0) @ qml.PauliZ(1))
  ```

  ```pycon
  >>> x = np.array(0.1, requires_grad=True)
  >>> y = np.array(0.4, requires_grad=True)
  >>> qml.grad(circuit)(x, y)
  (array(-0.09195267), array(-0.38747287))
  ```

  where only 2, instead of 4 with `broadcast=False`, circuits are created internally.

  To illustrate the speedup, for a constant-depth circuit with Pauli rotations and controlled Pauli rotations, the 
  time required to compute `qml.gradients.param_shift(circuit, broadcast=False)(params)`
  ("No broadcasting") and `qml.gradients.param_shift(circuit, broadcast=True)(params)` 
  ("Broadcasting") as a function of the number of qubits is given

>   [here](https://pennylane.readthedocs.io/en/stable/_images/param_shift_broadcast_speedup.png).

Reviewer: I assume this will work when v0.25 is the "stable" version? 🤞

Author: I think you are right 👍

  >>> y = np.array([np.pi/6, np.pi/5], requires_grad=True)
  >>> qml.gradients.param_shift(circuit, broadcast=True)(x, y)
  (tensor([[-0.7795085,  0.       ],
           [ 0.       , -0.7795085]], requires_grad=True),
  tensor([[-0.125, 0.  ],
          [0.  , -0.125]], requires_grad=True))
  ```

>   The following simpler example also makes use of broadcasting:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  The following example highlights how to make use of broadcasting
  gradients at the QNode level. Internally, broadcasting is used to
  compute the parameter-shift rule when required, which may result in
  performance improvements.
```

CC @dwierichs just to double check this is accurate :)

  ```python
  @qml.qnode(dev, diff_method="parameter-shift", broadcast=True)
  def circuit(x, y):
      qml.RX(x, wires=0)
      qml.RY(y, wires=1)
      return qml.expval(qml.PauliZ(0) @ qml.PauliZ(1))
  ```

  ```pycon
  >>> x = np.array(0.1, requires_grad=True)
  >>> y = np.array(0.4, requires_grad=True)
  >>> qml.grad(circuit)(x, y)
  (array(-0.09195267), array(-0.38747287))
  ```

>   where only 2, instead of 4 with `broadcast=False`, circuits are created internally.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  Here, only 2 circuits are created internally, rather than 4
  with `broadcast=False`.
```

maybe reads slightly better?

  (3, 4, 4)
  ```

<h4>Intuitive Operator arithmetic 🧮</h4>

* New functionality for representing the sum, product, and scalar-product 

>   of Operators is available.

Reviewer: Oh interesting! My thought was that we'd follow the same convention that we do for, e.g., QNode. I can lower-case them to remain consistent!

>   of Operators is available.

Reviewer 2: I think the difference here is that QNode is a term we invented, whereas operators and observables are pre-existing terminology 😆 So moreso we created the convention of QNode, but are using pre-existing conventions for scientific terms like Hamiltonian and operator.

  [(#2475)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/2475)
  [(#2625)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/2625)
  [(#2622)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/2622)
  [(#2721)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/2721)

  The following functionalities have been added to facilitate creating new Operators 
  whose matrix, terms, and eigenvalues can be accessed as per usual, while maintaining 
  differentiability. Operators created from these new features can be used within
  QNodes as Operations or as Observables (where physically applicable). 

  - Summing any number of Operators via `qml.op_sum` results in a "summed" Operator:

    ```python
    ops_to_sum = [qml.PauliX(0), qml.PauliY(1), qml.PauliZ(0)] 
    summed_ops = qml.op_sum(*ops_to_sum)

    dev = qml.device("default.qubit", wires=2)

    @qml.qnode(dev)
    def circuit(weights):
        qml.RX(weights[0], wires=0)
        qml.RY(weights[1], wires=1)
        qml.CNOT(wires=[0, 1])
        qml.RX(weights[2], wires=1)
        return qml.expval(summed_ops)

>     ```

Reviewer: Do you mean removing the QNode examples in every item in this list?

    >>> sum_op
    RX(1.23, wires=[0]) + RZ(3.14, wires=[0]) + -1*(RY(0.12, wires=[0]))
    >>> qml.matrix(sum_op)
    array([[-0.18063077-0.99999968j,  0.05996401-0.57695852j],
           [-0.05996401-0.57695852j, -0.18063077+0.99999968j]])
    ```
    Note that the behavior of `+` with *Observables* is different; it still creates 
    a Hamiltonian.
  
  - The `*` and `@` operators can be used to scale and compose all PennyLane Operators.
  
    ```pycon
    >>> prod_op = 2*qml.RX(1, wires=0) @ qml.RY(2, wires=0)
    >>> prod_op
    2*(RX(1, wires=[0])) @ RY(2, wires=[0])
    >>> qml.matrix(prod_op)
    array([[ 0.94831976-0.80684536j, -1.47692053-0.51806945j],
           [ 1.47692053-0.51806945j,  0.94831976+0.80684536j]])
     ```
  
  - The `**` operator can be used to raise PennyLane Operators to a power.
  
    ```pycon       
    >>> exp_op = qml.RZ(1.0, wires=0) ** 2
    >>> exp_op
    RZ**2(1.0, wires=[0])
    >>> qml.matrix(exp_op)
    array([[0.54030231-0.84147098j, 0.        +0.j        ],
           [0.        +0.j        , 0.54030231+0.84147098j]])
    ```

* A new class called `Controlled` is available in `qml.ops.op_math` to help represent 

>   a controlled version of any operation. 

Reviewer: Good point. Feel like a degenerate feature to `qml.ctrl`

>   a controlled version of any operation. 

Reviewer 3: `Controlled` is going to be a vast improvement over `ControlledOperation`, but it's a work-in-progress.

I'm currently working on adding basic decomposition functionality to `Controlled`, see #2938.  Once that PR is merged, I can have `ctrl` use `Controlled` instead of `ControlledOperation`.  Then we will deprecate `ControlledOperation`.

`ControlledOperation` just defines an `expand` and `adjoint`.

`Controlled` has:
* `label`
* `matrix`
* `sparse_matrix`
* `eigvals`
* `diagonalizing_gates`
* `generator`
* `adjoint`
* `pow`
* `simplify`
* `inverse` behavior
* `basis`
* `parameter_frequencies`
* `grad_method`
* Additional properties inheriting from `SymbolicOp`

>   a controlled version of any operation. 

Reviewer: @albi3ro @josh146 see update to this section. Is this better?

>   a controlled version of any operation. 

Reviewer 2: Nice, this sounds like a good plan @albi3ro! In this case, I wonder if we should describe and mention this `Controlled` option so visibly in the changelog for this release - it might be better to do so next release.

In which case, we could just shorten the entry. What do you think?

>   a controlled version of any operation. 

Reviewer 2: @isaacdevlugt oops, I replied without refreshing the page, so didn't see your comment

>   a controlled version of any operation. 

Reviewer: Still need clarification on this entry. I'm okay with moving to the improvements section as Christina mentioned 😄

  
    ```pycon       
    >>> exp_op = qml.RZ(1.0, wires=0) ** 2
    >>> exp_op
    RZ**2(1.0, wires=[0])
    >>> qml.matrix(exp_op)
    array([[0.54030231-0.84147098j, 0.        +0.j        ],
           [0.        +0.j        , 0.54030231+0.84147098j]])
    ```

* Simplify nested arithmetic operations using `qml.simplify`.
  [(#2835)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/2835)
  [(#2854)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/2854)
  
  This can also be used inside circuits:

  ```python
  @qml.qnode(qml.device('default.qubit', wires=1))
  def circuit(x, simplify=True):
      op = qml.adjoint(qml.adjoint(qml.RX(x, wires=0)))
      if simplify:
          qml.simplify(op)
      return qml.expval(qml.PauliZ(0))
  ```

  ```pycon
  >>> qml.draw(circuit)(1.2, simplify=False)
  0: ──RX(1.20)††─┤  <Z>
  >>> qml.draw(circuit)(1.2) 
  0: ──RX(1.20)─┤  <Z>
  ```

* `default.qubit` now natively executes any operation that defines a matrix except
  for trainable `Pow` operations. This includes custom operations, `GroverOperator`, `QFT`,
  `U1`, `U2`, `U3`, and arithmetic operations. The existence of a matrix is determined by the
  `Operator.has_matrix` property.

>   [(#2836)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/2836)

Reviewer: I think we can put this into "Improvements"?

Reviewer 2: :+1:

  print(qml.draw(circuit)(1.2))
  ```

  ```pycon
  0: ──RX(1.20)††─┤  <Z>
  0: ──RX(1.20)─┤  <Z>
  ```
  
* A `Prod` symbolic class is added that allows users to represent the Prod of operators.
  [(#2625)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/2625)

  The `Prod` class provides functionality like any other PennyLane operator. We can
  get the matrix, eigenvalues, terms, diagonalizing gates and more.

  ```pycon
  >>> prop_op = Prod(qml.PauliX(0), qml.PauliZ(0))
  >>> prop_op
  PauliX(wires=[0]) @ PauliZ(wires=[0])
  >>> qml.matrix(prop_op)
  array([[ 0,  -1],
         [ 1,   0]])
  >>> prop_op.terms()
  ([1.0], [PauliX(wires=[0]) @ PauliZ(wires=[0])])
  ```

  The `prod_op` can also be used inside a `qnode` as an observable.
  If the circuit is parameterized, then we can also differentiate through the
  product observable.

  ```python
  prod_op = Prod(qml.PauliZ(wires=0), qml.Hadamard(wires=1))
  dev = qml.device("default.qubit", wires=2)

  @qml.qnode(dev)
  def circuit(weights):
      qml.RX(weights[0], wires=0)
      return qml.expval(prod_op)
  ```

  ```pycon
  >>> weights = qnp.array([0.1], requires_grad=True)
  >>> qml.grad(circuit)(weights)

>   tensor([-0.07059288589999416], requires_grad=True)

Author: This part of the example was removed.

  ```pycon 
  >>> op = qml.adjoint(qml.adjoint(qml.RX(x, wires=0))) 
  >>> op 
  Adjoint(Adjoint(RX))(tensor([1.04719755, 1.57079633], requires_grad=True), wires=[0]) 
  >>> qml.simplify(op) 
  RX(tensor([1.04719755, 1.57079633], requires_grad=True), wires=[0]) 
  ```
  
  The `prod_op` can also be used inside a `qnode` as an operation which,
  if parameterized, can be differentiated.

  ```python
  dev = qml.device("default.qubit", wires=3)

  @qml.qnode(dev)
  def circuit(theta):
      qml.prod(qml.PauliZ(0), qml.RX(theta, 1))
      return qml.expval(qml.PauliZ(1))
  ```
* A new function called `qml.equal` can be used to compare the equality 
  of parametric operators.
  [(#2651)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/2651)

  ```pycon
  >>> circuit(1.23)
  tensor(0.33423773, requires_grad=True)
  >>> qml.grad(circuit)(1.23)

>   -0.9424888019316975

Reviewer 4: Note: this output is not correct. Just mentioning in case this example would not be removed by this PR.

Author: Same here, removed example.

  (3, 4, 4)
  ```

<h4>Intuitive operator arithmetic 🧮</h4>

* New functionality for representing the sum, product, and scalar-product 
  of operators is available.
  [(#2475)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/2475)
  [(#2625)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/2625)
  [(#2622)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/2622)
  [(#2721)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/2721)

  The following functionalities have been added to facilitate creating new operators 
  whose matrix, terms, and eigenvalues can be accessed as per usual, while maintaining 

>   differentiability. operators created from these new features can be used within

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  differentiability. Operators created from these new features can be used within
```

    >>> qml.matrix(sum_op)
    array([[-0.18063077-0.99999968j,  0.05996401-0.57695852j],
           [-0.05996401-0.57695852j, -0.18063077+0.99999968j]])
    ```
    Note that the behavior of `+` and `-` with *observables* is different; it still creates 
    a Hamiltonian.
  
  - The `*` and `@` operators can be used to scale and compose all PennyLane operators.
  
    ```pycon
    >>> prod_op = 2*qml.RX(1, wires=0) @ qml.RY(2, wires=0)
    >>> prod_op
    2*(RX(1, wires=[0])) @ RY(2, wires=[0])
    >>> qml.matrix(prod_op)
    array([[ 0.94831976-0.80684536j, -1.47692053-0.51806945j],
           [ 1.47692053-0.51806945j,  0.94831976+0.80684536j]])
     ```
  
  - The `**` operator can be used to raise PennyLane operators to a power.
  
    ```pycon       
    >>> exp_op = qml.RZ(1.0, wires=0) ** 2
    >>> exp_op
    RZ**2(1.0, wires=[0])
    >>> qml.matrix(exp_op)
    array([[0.54030231-0.84147098j, 0.        +0.j        ],
           [0.        +0.j        , 0.54030231+0.84147098j]])
    ```

* A new class called `Controlled` is available in `qml.ops.op_math` to represent 
  a controlled version of any operator. This will eventually be integrated into 

>   `qml.ctrl` to provide a performance increase and more feature coverage.

Reviewer 2: :+1:

  [(#2634)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/2634)

* Arithmetic operations can now be simplified using `qml.simplify`.
  [(#2835)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/2835)
  [(#2854)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/2854)
  
  ```pycon 
  >>> op = qml.adjoint(qml.adjoint(qml.RX(x, wires=0))) 
  >>> op 
  Adjoint(Adjoint(RX))(tensor([1.04719755, 1.57079633], requires_grad=True), wires=[0]) 
  >>> qml.simplify(op) 
  RX(tensor([1.04719755, 1.57079633], requires_grad=True), wires=[0]) 
  ```

* A new function called `qml.equal` can be used to compare the equality 
  of parametric operators.
  [(#2651)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/2651)

  ```pycon
  >>> qml.equal(qml.RX(1.23, 0), qml.RX(1.23, 0))
  True
  >>> qml.equal(qml.RY(4.56, 0), qml.RY(7.89, 0))
  False
  ```

> <h4>Marvelous mixed state features 🙌</h4>

Reviewer 2: I like the alliteration!

  tensor(0.08228288, requires_grad=True)
  ```

> <h4>New measurement types and a new operator and optimizer ✨</h4>

Reviewer: This is kinda nit-picky on my end but there is only _one_ new operator and _one_ new optimizer, but there are _two_ measurements 😅. Am I overthinking it?

> <h4>New measurement types and a new operator and optimizer ✨</h4>

Reviewer 2: A sign then that we could perhaps re-categorize or find a better section title 🙂 

For me, the purpose of the section titles is to indicate to the reader the rough category of new features. But "A new measurement, operator, and optimizer" read to me as not a categorization, but just a list of things it contained.

> <h4>New measurement types and a new operator and optimizer ✨</h4>

Reviewer: Good point! I'll change it

  [(#2860)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/2860)

  QNodes returning a list or tuple of different measurements return an intuitive 
  data structure via `qml.enable_return()`, where the individual measurements are 
  separated into their own tensors:

  ```python
  qml.enable_return()
  dev = qml.device("default.qubit", wires=2)
  
  @qml.qnode(dev)
  def circuit(x):
      qml.Hadamard(wires=[0])
      qml.CRX(x, wires=[0, 1])
      return (qml.probs(wires=[0]), qml.vn_entropy(wires=[0]), qml.probs(wires=0), qml.expval(wires=1))
  ```
  ```pycon
  >>> circuit(0.5)
  (tensor([0.5, 0.5], requires_grad=True), tensor(0.08014815, requires_grad=True), tensor([0.5, 0.5], requires_grad=True), tensor(0.93879128, requires_grad=True))
  ```

  In addition, QNodes that utilize this new return type support backpropagation.
  This new return type can be disabled thereafter via `qml.disable_return()`.

* An operator called `qml.FlipSign` is now available.
  [(#2780)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/2780)

  Mathematically, `qml.FlipSign` functions as follows: 
  $\text{FlipSign}(n) \vert m \rangle = (-1)^\delta_{n,m} \vert m \rangle$, where 

>   $\vert m \rangle$ is an arbitrary qubit state and $n$ is a qubit configuration:

Reviewer: Math isn't rendering 😢. How do I do this? 😅

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  :math:`\text{FlipSign}(n) \vert m \rangle = (-1)^\delta_{n,m} \vert m \rangle`, where 
  :math:`\vert m \rangle` is an arbitrary qubit state and $n$ is a qubit configuration:
```

A weird subtlety of including a markdown document inside of sphinx :(

<h3>Improvements 📈</h3>

* `default.qubit` now natively executes any operation that defines a matrix except
  for trainable `Pow` operations. 
  [(#2836)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/2836)
  
* When adjoint differentiation is requested, circuits are now decomposed so
  that all trainable operations have a generator.

>   [(#2836)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/2836)

Reviewer: Same PR link? 🤔

Author: I think the first item should have stayed in new features, before 2836 it was not possible to execute `Sum`, `Prod`. But it was already possible for `Adjoint`

Reviewer: From a user perspective, I think it *reads* more like an improvement under the hood rather than a new feature. Is there  a way to reword that first item?

Author: It was possible to use symbolic operations but not to use them on `default.qubit`, so for me it is a new feature compared to 0.24.

Reviewer: Okay let's see what @josh146 says when he gets a chance to review

  ```

* The [simultaneous perturbation stochastic approximation (SPSA) optimizer](https://www.jhuapl.edu/SPSA/PDF-SPSA/Spall_An_Overview.PDF) 
  is available via `qml.SPSAOptimizer`.
  [(#2661)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/2661)

>   The SPSA optimizer is suitable for cost functions whose evaluation may involve

Reviewer: 🥴

      params, cost = opt.step_and_cost(cost, params)
  ```  

<h4>Experimental feature: New return types</h4>

> * A new experimental return type for QNodes with multiple measurements has been added.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* A new return type for QNodes with multiple measurements has been added.
```

      params, cost = opt.step_and_cost(cost, params)
  ```  

> <h4>Experimental feature: New return types</h4>

Author: We can already return multiple measurements but the system is unintuitive and use ragged array. And yes it is experimental we will need multiple releases have it in and would like users to provide early feedbacks.

> <h4>Experimental feature: New return types</h4>

Reviewer: Okay, I see in previous release notes that "experimental" has been used. Let keep it in then!

```suggestion
<h4>Experimental feature: New return types 🌈</h4>
```

> * We provide a new experimental return types system for QNodes with multiple measurements.

Author: It is not correct, see previous comment.

> * We provide a new experimental return types system for QNodes with multiple measurements.

Reviewer: Ah okay. How about this:

```suggestion
* A new experimental return type for QNodes with multiple measurements has been added.
```

  
  [(#2814)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/2814)
  [(#2815)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/2815)
  [(#2860)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/2860)
  

>   The new system guarantees an intuitive return types, it is returning tuple of measurements by default. It is now

Reviewer 4: > it is returning tuple of measurements by default
```suggestion
  The new system guarantees intuitive return types such that a sequence (e.g., list or tuple) is returned based on the `return` statement of the quantum function. It is now
```

  possible to trigger the new return type system with the top-level function `qml.enable_return`. We have support for
  forward pass and backpropagation for every interface. It does not support custom gradient function for now.
  
  **Example**
  
  Forward pass:
  ```python
  qml.enable_return()
  
  dev = qml.device("default.qubit", wires=2)
  
  def circuit(x):
          qml.Hadamard(wires=[0])
          qml.CRX(x, wires=[0, 1])
          return (qml.probs(wires=[0]), qml.vn_entropy(wires=[0]), qml.probs(wires=0), qml.expval(wires=1))
  

>   qnode = qml.QNode(circuit, dev)

Reviewer 4: Maybe we could disable the feature at the end of the example so that there's no confusion with any subsequent PennyLane calls.

  ```
  ```pycon
  res = qnode(0.5)
  >>> res
  (tensor([0.5, 0.5], requires_grad=True), tensor(0.08014815, requires_grad=True), tensor([0.5, 0.5], requires_grad=True), tensor(0.93879128, requires_grad=True))

>   ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion

Access this new feature by calling the `qml.enable_return()` function and in a subsequently-defined QNode, pack your different measurement types into a tuple:

  ```python
  qml.enable_return()
  
  dev = qml.device("default.qubit", wires=2)
  
  @qml.qnode(dev)
  def circuit(x):
          qml.Hadamard(wires=[0])
          qml.CRX(x, wires=[0, 1])
          return (qml.probs(wires=[0]), qml.vn_entropy(wires=[0]), qml.probs(wires=0), qml.expval(wires=1))
  ```
  ```pycon
  >>> circuit(0.5)
  (tensor([0.5, 0.5], requires_grad=True), tensor(0.08014815, requires_grad=True), tensor([0.5, 0.5], requires_grad=True), tensor(0.93879128, requires_grad=True))
  ```
```

Author: Here it is rendering strange in GitHub, do you suggest to remove the backprop example.

Reviewer: Yeah I'm not married to the backpropagation example. Simply stating "In addition, QNodes that utilize this new return type support backpropagation."

Author: Ok no worries let's remove it!

Reviewer: Sorry is there a reason why this suggestion wasn't committed?

  Backpropagation:
  ```python
  import jax
  
  qml.enable_return()
  
  dev = qml.device("default.qubit", wires=2)
  qml.enable_return()
  
  @qml.qnode(dev, interface="jax")
  def circuit(a):
      qml.RX(a[0], wires=0)
      qml.CNOT(wires=(0, 1))
      qml.RY(a[1], wires=1)
      qml.RZ(a[2], wires=1)
      return qml.expval(qml.PauliZ(wires=0)), qml.probs(wires=[0, 1]), qml.vn_entropy(wires=1)
  
  x = jax.numpy.array([0.1, 0.2, 0.3])
  ```
  ```pycon
  res = jax.jacobian(circuit)(x)
  >>> res
  (DeviceArray([-9.9833414e-02, -7.4505806e-09, -3.9932679e-10], dtype=float32), 
  DeviceArray([[-4.9419206e-02, -9.9086545e-02,  3.4938008e-09],
               [-4.9750542e-04,  9.9086538e-02,  1.2768372e-10],
               [ 4.9750548e-04,  2.4812977e-04,  4.8371929e-13],
               [ 4.9419202e-02, -2.4812980e-04,  2.6696912e-11]],            dtype=float32), 
  DeviceArray([ 2.9899091e-01, -4.4703484e-08,  9.5104014e-10], dtype=float32))

>   ```

Reviewer: I'm confused... is this a good example of backprop? Is `jax.jacobian` using backprop under the hood?

```suggestion
  In addition, QNodes that return multiple measurements support the use of backpropagation:
  
  ```python
  import jax
  
  qml.enable_return()
  
  dev = qml.device("default.qubit", wires=2)
  
  @qml.qnode(dev, interface="jax")
  def circuit(a):
      qml.RX(a[0], wires=0)
      qml.CNOT(wires=(0, 1))
      qml.RY(a[1], wires=1)
      qml.RZ(a[2], wires=1)
      return qml.expval(qml.PauliZ(wires=0)), qml.probs(wires=[0, 1]), qml.vn_entropy(wires=1)
  ```
  ```pycon
  >>> x = jax.numpy.array([0.1, 0.2, 0.3])
  >>> jax.jacobian(circuit)(x)
  (DeviceArray([-9.9833414e-02, -7.4505806e-09, -3.9932679e-10], dtype=float32), 
  DeviceArray([[-4.9419206e-02, -9.9086545e-02,  3.4938008e-09],
               [-4.9750542e-04,  9.9086538e-02,  1.2768372e-10],
               [ 4.9750548e-04,  2.4812977e-04,  4.8371929e-13],
               [ 4.9419202e-02, -2.4812980e-04,  2.6696912e-11]],            dtype=float32), 
  DeviceArray([ 2.9899091e-01, -4.4703484e-08,  9.5104014e-10], dtype=float32))
  ```
```

Author: Yes backpropagation is always used by interfaces if you don't specify anything else.

Reviewer: See previous comment, but I think we can do away with this example and simply state:

```suggestion
In addition, QNodes that utilize this new return type support backpropagation.
```

  supported by `qml.qchem`.

>   [(#2795)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/2795)

Reviewer 5: That is correct for some functions: changing `qml.hf` to `qml.qchem` is enough. But some of the function names were modified to make them compatible with the old PL-QChem. It seems better to me that we just refer the users to the `qml.qchem` documentations and demos instead of providing a simple recipe.

>   [(#2795)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/2795)

Reviewer 2: Thanks Soran! Would be good to add what you say above to the changelog entry

>   [(#2795)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/2795)

Reviewer: I'll stick this in the changelog entry :)

      return qml.expval(qml.PauliZ(1))
  ```

* PennyLane now depends on newer versions (>=2.7) of the `semantic_version` package,
  which provides an updated API that is incompatible which versions of the package 
  prior to 2.7. If you run into issues relating to this package, please reinstall 
  PennyLane.
  [(#2744)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/2744)
  [(#2767)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/2767)

<h3>Deprecations 👋</h3>

> 🦗

Reviewer: Deleting it now
